final update for project goals 2024h2 (#1457)
rust-lang/blog.rust-lang.org: posts/2025-01-18-Project-Goals-Dec-Update.md

* Async Functions in Traits (and Return Position Impl Trait in Trait) are currently not consided `dyn` compatible. We would eventually like to have first-class `dyn` support, but as an intermediate step we created a procedural macro crate [`dynosaur`](https://crates.io/crates/dynosaur)[^names] that can create wrappers that enable **dynamic dispatch**. We are planning a comprehensive blog post in 2025H1 that shows how to use this crate and lays out the overall plan for async functions in traits.
* Work was done to prototype an **implementation for async drop** but we didn't account for reviewing bandwidth. [nikomatsakis](https://github.com/nikomatsakis) has done initial reads and is working with PR author to get this done in 2025H1. To be clear though the scope of this is an experiment with the goal of uncovering implementation hurdles. There remains significant language design work before this feature would be considered for stabilization (we don't even have an RFC, and there are lots of unknowns remaining).

> * We have had fruitful discussions about the trait for **async iteration** but do not have widespread consensus, that's on the docker for 2025H1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* We have had fruitful discussions about the trait for **async iteration** but do not have widespread consensus, that's on the docket for 2025H1.
```

    <div style="flex: auto;"><a href='https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-project-goals/issues/106'><strong>Const traits</strong></a></div>
    <div style="flex: initial;"><progress value="0" max="2"></progress>
</div>
</div>

* Progress was made on adding const traits and implementation in the compiler, with improvements being carefully considered. `Add` was constified in [rust#133237](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/133237) and `Deref`/`DerefMut` in [rust#133260](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/133260).
* Further progress was made on implementing stability for the const traits feature in [rust#132823](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/132823) and [rust#133999](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/133999), with additional PRs constifying more traits open at [rust#133995](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/133995) and [rust#134628](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/134628).

<div style="display: flex;" class="mt2 mb3">
    <div style="flex: auto;"><a href='https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-project-goals/issues/107'><strong>Ergonomic ref-counting</strong></a></div>
    <div style="flex: initial;"><progress value="1" max="6"></progress>
</div>
</div>

> * Over the last six months, we created a lang-team experiment devoted to this issue and [spastorino](https://github.com/spastorino) began work on an experimental implementation. [joshtriplett](https://github.com/joshtriplett) authored [RFC 3680](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/3680), which has received substantial feedback. The current work is focused on identifying "cheaply cloneable" types and making it easy to create closures that clone them instead of moving them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Over the last six months, we created a lang-team experiment devoted to this issue and [spastorino](https://github.com/spastorino) began work on an experimental implementation. [joshtriplett](https://github.com/joshtriplett) authored [RFC 3680](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3680), which has received substantial feedback. The current work is focused on identifying "cheaply cloneable" types and making it easy to create closures that clone them instead of moving them.
```

    <div style="flex: initial;"><progress value="4" max="10"></progress>
</div>
</div>

* Alternatives to sandboxed build scripts are going to be investigated instead of continuing this project goal into 2025h1 - namely, declaratively configuring system dependencies with [`system-deps`](https://crates.io/crates/system-deps), using an approach similar to code-checker [Cackle](https://crates.io/crates/cargo-acl) and its sandbox environment [Bubblewrap](https://github.com/containers/bubblewrap), or fully-sandboxed build environments like Docker or Nix.

<div style="display: flex;" class="mt2 mb3">
    <div style="flex: auto;"><a href='https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-project-goals/issues/110'><strong>Extend pubgrub to match cargo&#x27;s dependency resolution</strong></a></div>
    <div style="flex: initial;"><progress value="2" max="2"></progress>
</div>
</div>

* Significant speedups have been achieved, reducing the slowest crate resolution time from over 120 seconds to 11 seconds, and decreasing the time to check all crates from 178 minutes to 71.42 minutes.

> * Performance improvements have been made to both the existing resolver and the new implementation, with the lock file verification time reduced from 44.90 minutes to 32.77 minutes for most crates.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Performance improvements have been made to both the existing resolver and the new implementation, with the lock file verification time for all crates reduced from 44.90 minutes to 32.77 minutes (excluding some of the hardest cases).
```

<div style="display: flex;" class="mt2 mb3">
    <div style="flex: auto;"><a href='https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-project-goals/issues/112'><strong>Make Rustdoc Search easier to learn</strong></a></div>
    <div style="flex: initial;"><progress value="2" max="9"></progress>
</div>
</div>

* Our pull request adding example searches and adding a search button has been added to the agenda for the rustdoc team next meeting.

<div style="display: flex;" class="mt2 mb3">
    <div style="flex: auto;"><a href='https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-project-goals/issues/113'><strong>Next-generation trait solver</strong></a></div>
    <div style="flex: initial;"><progress value="10" max="13"></progress>
</div>
</div>

> * The `-Znext-solver=coherence` stabilization encountered no issues and is now on beta, with a new update blogpost published.
> * Significant progress was made on bootstrap with `-Znext-solver=globally`, including finishing the core of the "typing mode" refactor and unblocking bootstrap.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* The `-Znext-solver=coherence` stabilization is now stable in version 1.84, with a new update blogpost published.
* Significant progress was made on bootstrap with `-Znext-solver=globally`. We're now able to compile rustc and cargo, enabling try-builds and perf runs.
```

* Help is needed on any issue marked with `performance-project`, especially on issue #13714.

<div style="display: flex;" class="mt2 mb3">
    <div style="flex: auto;"><a href='https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-project-goals/issues/115'><strong>Patterns of empty types</strong></a></div>
    <div style="flex: initial;"><progress value="3" max="8"></progress>
</div>
</div>

* Over the course of this goal, Nadrieril wrote and posted the never patterns RFC as an attempt to make progress without figuring out the whole picture, and the general feedback was "we want to see the whole picture". Next step will be to write up an RFC that includes a clear proposal for which empty patterns can and cannot be omitted. This is 100% bottlenecked on my own writing bandwidth (reach out if you want to help!). Work will continue but the goal won't be resubmitted for 2025h1.

<div style="display: flex;" class="mt2 mb3">
    <div style="flex: auto;"><a href='https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-project-goals/issues/118'><strong>Scalable Polonius support on nightly</strong></a></div>
    <div style="flex: initial;"><progress value="7" max="18"></progress>
</div>
</div>

> * Amanda has made progress on removing placeholders, focusing on lazy constraints and early error reporting, as well as investigating issues with rewriting type tests; a few tests are still failing, and it seems error reporting and diagnostics will be hard to keep exactly as today.
> * The prototype is working well enough that it's worthwhile to land, with most of the progress done on the prototype now available; there is still a lot of work left to do, but it's a good milestone.

Reviewer 5: I've expanded a bit the description since the month's progress  was quite significant. And we might as well link both our names like for some of the other updates :3

What do you think?

```suggestion
* [Amanda](https://github.com/amandasystems) has made progress on removing placeholders, focusing on lazy constraints and early error reporting, as well as investigating issues with rewriting type tests; a few tests are still failing, and it seems error reporting and diagnostics will be hard to keep exactly as today.
* [@lqd](https://github.com/lqd) has opened PRs to land the prototype of the location-sensitive analysis. It's working well enough that it's worthwhile to land; there is still a lot of work left to do, but it's a good milestone, which we hoped to achieve with this project goal.
```
